Mr. Lagarde,

I am beyond disappointed in Severn’s attempt “to address the civil discourse around the death of George Floyd,” as Wes Sims so generously put it in his open letter. I say generous because nowhere in your message is George Floyd named, nor is Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, Tony McDade, Nina Pop or any other names of black people whose lives were recently taken through violent acts of racism and police brutality. Every one of our names, the Severn School alumni, ornament the entrance of the new building to exemplify Severn’s stated commitment to value “the dignity, self-worth, and potential of each individual.” They were also individuals with potential. Why can’t you say the names of the unjustly murdered to afford them that same human dignity? Their lives mattered too.

The fact that you “struggled” to decide whether or not you should address a primarily white and extremely privileged institution of education that falls embarrassingly short at calling itself diverse, is unnerving. What was it that made you question your duty as the executive administrator to address this horrific and ongoing crisis facing our nation?

To underscore your avoidance of addressing Severn’s own role in white supremacy, you twice failed to outline any kind of action Severn is going to take to practice anti-racism even after six actions were spelled out for you. Adding a few links of children’s books, a TED Talk and an article on how to talk to kids about racism is literally telling us the work won’t be done in the classroom or on campus and instead must only be done at home. Severn is an institution of education and it must take up the reins on educating the youth they serve about the weight of their privilege and how they can and must use it to improve the lives of others. Training must be extended to the faculty and staff as well, how else might they be the ones to teach anti-racism if they don’t comprehend and live into it daily themselves?

In response to the open letter you again vow to do nothing of substance. Why squander the summer when you have hundreds of alumni ready to organize and work with Severn on accomplishing real tangible goals? Severn wields power and with this it should be setting the president that inspires other schools in their racial justice efforts. Setting up a virtual town hall immediately and well ahead of the 2020-2021 academic year can be the start of some impactful and long coming change that will allow Severn to truly live into its mission to lead. Whatsmore I think the impressive and increasing number of co-signatories on the open letter is proof in-and-of-itself that we want action now.
As you said in your first email, “The choice not to act is an act itself.” Your inaction and commitment to postponing action until the end of summer is brazenly hypocritical. Current and future generations of Severn students deserve better.

Sincerely,  
Coley Chacos ’04  
Black lives matter. Black queer lives matter. Black trans lives matter.
