Dear Mr. Lagarde,

This is Drew Farrell, class of 2009, writing to you and hoping you are well. I think about Severn often and fondly, and I will always be grateful for the critical thinking skills I picked up from Dr. Baugh and the English department. My experience in the halls of 201 Water Street have stayed with me throughout the years and I believe I am a better man, thinker and citizen because of it.

It's with all of this in mind that I'd like to join the growing number of alums in the Severn community and voice my concerns regarding the school's lack of public commitment to the **Black Lives Matter** movement. I've read your June 1 open letter to the Severn community, as well as a response to an email you sent to Stephanie Tuerk that reinforced the sentiments in the letter itself. I have much to say about these two correspondences, most notably their shameful omission of "**Black Lives Matter**." Additionally, I believe they are both formulated on an **intellectually lazy foundation** unfit for the core values of our wonderful school and beneath your intellect personally.

Let me first address the latter, because as you stated in the letter and correspondence to Stephanie, I believe that is the kind of conversation you intended to have with Admirals like me. In your June 1 letter there is a lot of abstract rhetoric about nebulous concepts like character, courage, attention, 'making a difference,' etc. At Severn we pride ourselves at championing these concepts and using them as bedrocks to inform ourselves, formulate our opinions and strengthen our actions for the greater good of our communities. They are powerful concepts that, in the hands of men and women with upstanding character are the best tools we have for moving our society forward. The problem with these concepts, conversely, is that in the hands of tyrannous men and women, they are the best tools we have for tearing down any progress we've collectively made.

Apart from the words "**Black Lives Matter**," the most glaring omission from your statement about this watershed moment in our country's discourse about race is a direction you wish the community to utilize these idealistic concepts. It's this hyper-libertarian, laissez-faire viewpoint that I consider to be the laziest of all paths our minds can take when confronting an individual's place within a larger system. It was the philosopher John Stuart Mill, in his work, On Liberty, who said, "A person may cause evil to others not only by his actions but by his inaction, and in either case he is justly accountable to them for the injury." While you personally denounce (again) conveniently nebulous, abstract concepts like systemic racism, injustice and the marginalization of entire underserved communities, you ignore the giant elephant in the room that is the context allowing you to hold yourself to such ideals in the first place. You are the Headmaster of a private school in a wealthy state in a wealthy nation whose infrastructure is rotting to the core because of, among other things, a criminally unproportional distribution of wealth and subsequent underserving of entire communities. (Communities, I might add, that look nothing like Severn.)

There's nothing wrong with the ideals underlying such a libertarian frame of mind. Hands-off thinkers like yourself wrote of 'unalienable rights' in the *Declaration of Independence* and also framed the *Constitution* that eventually became our government. They love to use the ideals found in these documents to celebrate the concepts you discuss above, but they conveniently omit other sentiments in later pages that call for citizens to action when governmental power is abused. So, when that libertarian frame of mind leaves gaping holes in our society's infrastructure that abuse millions of Americans it must be abandoned. Furthermore, for a myriad of reasons (the privatization of prisons, the military-industrial complex and overfunding of police and defense, and the militaristic training of peace officers, to name a few) a symptom of the appropriation of these philosophical ideals has been the normalization and acceptance for **the police to murder black Americans**. **CHANGE IS ABSOLUTELY NECESSARY**.

Mr. Lagarde, let me be clear. Your inaction here, your unwillingness to properly address this crisis for what it is-- the illegal targeting and eradication of an oppressed people by the agents of the government sworn to protect them-- is wholly unacceptable and downright shameful to the Severn community at large. Your hands-off philosophical frame of mind represents an antiquated ideology that conveniently ignores context on a macro-societal scale that benefits people like you and underscores your position to make this decision (or lack thereof) in the first place. The most dangerous thing about your message to the community is that by imploring students and alumni alike to vaguely "do what you think is right" without any direction or official acknowledgement of the **Black Lives Matter** movement, you could very well be **stoking the very flames of white supremacy** that led to this **completely broken American infrastructure**. Severn is an overwhelmingly white community and, to go back to Mill, I fear doing nothing is, in fact, an action towards reinforcing a system that undervalues people that are not appropriately represented by our school's community.

Perhaps the most ironic thing about all of these issues I have with your lukewarm response is the juxtaposition you discuss between the joyous celebration of our 2020 graduates and the grim reality of society's circumstances outside of Severn's campus. This implies that you think this batch of graduates want to be the type of alums who, when the going gets tough, when to speak up might take away from some semblance of positive attention for themselves, instead decide to do nothing. **I guarantee this is not the case** and instead believe the graduates would be prouder to accept a diploma from a school that stood in solidarity with the most oppressed and underrepresented people in its time. How great it would be to achieve such an important milestone of personal, intellectual and educational growth in such a time of imperative call-to-action. Instead all they got was an awkward online ceremony and a silence that speaks louder than words, leaving them to wonder if their school, pardon my French, even gives a shit. Who would even want a diploma from that kind of institution?

In conclusion, I implore you to change course and to become more vocally aligned with the **Black Lives Matter** movement. Frankly the best metaphor I can come up with is that your philosophy-first, hands-off imperative to vaguely tell the community to uphold Severn's values is essentially rearranging deck chairs on an intellectual Titanic. It is a school of thought on its last breath and we must let it die. The Ayn Rand values on which this country was founded, the ones that allow wealth to grow unregulated at the cost of our nation's infrastructure, the ones you champion but refuse to actually use to be a cog in fixing our society's problems, you must understand, were implemented by white men with untouchable privilege. They had the cultural, political and literal real estate to design a more perfect union **for themselves.** Over time this philosophy has proliferated systems and economies that are inherently exclusionary to our most underserved communities and inclusionary to people like you and me. It is not only, perhaps most importantly, antithetical to the values on which you believe our great school is built, but its denial is vital to the school's greatness itself. **A school standing on an intellectual foundation, one with a moral imperative to effect change that shirks responsibility when action is necessary is no great school at all.** It is our **duty**, therefore, to use our privilege and influence to stop any future proliferation of these longstanding, evil societal maladies. I've used this time to reflect on my white privilege and to write on topics that hopefully educate those like me towards meaningful action and progress. I hope you, the head of our great and thoughtful community, do the same.

**BLACK LIVES MATTER!**

All the best,  
Drew Farrell, '09  
GO ADMIRALS!