Dear Mr. Lagarde,

I am an alumna and a signer of the letter you received calling for a strong statement from Severn that both affirms the school's support for people of color and denounces racism. 

While I was surprised by the tentative tone of your initial communication, I was stupefied that, in your response to Stephanie Tuerk's letter, you cited "educational philosophy" as a reason not to have taken a stronger stance on violence against Black people and subsequent calls for justice.

As a former educator, I, too, am a firm believer that critical thinking is a crucial skill to teach. However, there are certain lessons we, as a society, have decided that children simply need to learn for the collective good⁠--that the importance for young people to learn them trumps the importance of critical thinking. They include:

- Say 'Please' and 'Thank you'
- Practice the Golden Rule
- Put on a seatbelt
- Wear a helmet
- Yes means yes
- Don't drink and drive
- Cooperation and collaboration give better outcomes
- Honesty and integrity are essential
- Civic engagement matters
- "All men are created equal"

These are just a few of the social norms that we repeat ad nauseum as parents, as educators, as members of a larger community.

Teachers and schools make all manner of value judgments in their mission to help students "become leaders and build character," which is itself a value-laden goal. Can you honestly tell me that "Racism is wrong" should not be a core value of good leaders? That plagiarism negates good character, but racism does not? Because that is how I interpret your statement that educational philosophy prohibits you from telling people what to think on this issue.

I urge you to model the leadership you wish to see your students exhibit by unequivocally standing up against racism and pledging to continue working for a more equitable society. 

Sincerely,  
Joyce Wu '95