Dear Mr. Murphy and Severn Board of Trustees,

Thank you for hearing the concerns of the greater Severn community about racial justice and for responding so rapidly after the listening sessions, especially as I'm sure you're already busy with COVID-19-related affairs.

Racial justice is like criminal justice in that they both have two parts: setting the standards and enforcing the standards. Neither can be successful without the other. Just as it would be absurd to outlaw embezzlement but never arrest anyone for it, it is fruitless to teach the value of diversity and kindness in classrooms, yet fail to enforce those principles in the hallways.

The steps you outlined in your announcement on Monday, July 6th, will set a high bar for diversity, equity, and inclusion at Severn, which I am confident the school can reach with commitment, hard work, and open minds. I'm particularly encouraged to see that Severn will hire a DEI Director who will report to the Board and that the proposed committee will include a cross-section of interested groups. Ensuring that the DEI Director has a lot of latitude to affect change and that the committee represents a broad range of voices will go a long way towards reestablishing the trust that has been broken by administrative inaction.

Severn students deserve to learn in an environment where they feel safe and valued, and it's the school's responsibility to set the tone and create that environment. I hope that we can all come together now to create strong standards guiding school culture and then to enforce them.

Sincerely,  
Joyce Wu, Class of 1995